Hello and welcome to Continuous Integration with unity.
This is part of learning about unit testing and the ways that unit testing can fit into your workflows.
In this section, we'll do a brief introduction of the topic, and then we'll look at Unity Cloud build
as one way that you can set up continuous integration and continuous deployment for your unity projects.
As we've seen in the software development life cycle for creating games, unity is used most predominantly
in the development, testing and deployment phases.
When we talk about doing unit testing, we're adding that into steps five and six here.
And when we're talking about continuous integration and continuous deployment, we're really looking
at all three of those steps in ways to automate our testing and folded into our production workflows.
So what is continuous integration and continuous deployment?
CI CD as it's called, reduces code errors and defects, making it crucial to every DevOps workflow.
The developer operations is typically the final stage or stages where your project is being tested,
going live, and having new updates added to the live experience.
CI CD involves practices of frequently integrating your code changes, automatically integrating that
code, and then releasing builds to your end users.
So if you're doing all of that together, you're doing the full CI CD process.
But you can also do one or the other or focus on key areas of the workflow for yourself.
Now.
CI CD is not unique to unity, and during the years of Unity's professional development and being used
in the industry, more and more third parties have added tools to give you continuous integration and
continuous deployment inside unity.
Some of the technologies that are used are GitHub and GitLab to hold the code or to store the code where
you have it online, and version control, but there's other operations you can use as well for that.
But there's other technologies in there as well.
And then tools like circle CI or game CI, code Magic bamboo, Unity Cloud Build, Jenkins.
These are technologies built on top of wherever your code is being version controlled, and being able
to plug in the right triggers to cause the right actions for the workflow.
That makes sense for you two that are most relevant to this video, because it's what I've used, is
GitHub to host the repo that we're going to build in Unity Cloud, build as the tool that will do the
building and the testing.
So we've mentioned that CI CD combines the practices of continuous integration and continuous delivery.
So the integration is about putting your new code into the production.
That includes testing it, building it and getting it into the code.
The continuous delivery or continuous deployment, as it's also called.
This automates the delivery of that code to the build target.
So this is different.
This isn't just putting your code into the project, that's CI.
This is putting it into the hands of your end users.
So that is the CD.
Now up until this point in the course, we've seen that unit testing is incredibly useful to help shape
how our code matures and then certainly how we maintain and debug that code.
And we've been manually doing the testing.
So that means even though we create some automated testing, we either play the runtime experience as
a user and look for bugs.
That way there's one way to manually test.
And the other thing that we're doing is we're manually clicking the button in the Unity Test Runner
window to run those tests.
So let's take a look at some bullet points for manual.
First of all, we're not guaranteeing any automated process happens so we can't guarantee any results.
It is more unreliable and error prone than an automated alternative.
These repetitive tasks running them yourself every once in a while, remembering to do that, looking
diligently at the results that all takes energy.
And these repetitive tasks can be boring.
And when things are boring, developers may skip them or do them less frequently.
And lastly, if we forget to test, then we don't have any good updated status on how our project is
doing.
However, if we take all the best practices we have in setting up those tests, and we also automate
the running of those tasks and even the delivery of our code to our end users, we can take advantage
of more benefits.
For example, we have a reliable repetitive process here.
When we have automatic CI CD setup, we have quick and relevant feedback we can choose and we'll see
what triggers each build.
But if we want to do it for every commit to git repo, then every time we do a commit to a git repo,
the test get run, the build gets verified and we get notified about that.
So you could do it more or less frequently depending on what your needs are.
It gives you more confidence in your code so there's less risk.
So when you go into refactoring systems or adding new features.
And lastly by having one.
Builds available to everyone and then automating that on top.
We have a foundation of this confidence and the security in our code base that allows us to more easily
collaborate with others.
We'll be able to know who's contributions continue to keep the project stable, which is an incredibly
effective piece of info to have when you're working on a team.
So stepping back here, looking at a visual way, the continuous integration is the code merges, the
code gets built.
Then in the continuous delivery we look to see that our tests have passed.
Then we move it to a staging environment, which is somewhere that is not yet ready for the end users,
but almost there.
And we make sure that the process works really well before we deploy it out to the end users.
Now, you can do automated testing and automated delivery of those testing results, regardless of having
any particular flow to how you program your code in the version control.
But just to talk about the potential alignment and connections here, this shows what could be different
commits on different branches.
In version control I'm using git, so let's just pretend I'm using git here and I have a main or a master
branch there.
And then I do all my development work on a second developer branch.
And then each time I want to create a new feature, I would branch off of development, give it a name
like let's say feature, main menu, quick button, and then I would go and add that main menu quit
button and be sure that that branch only speaks to the changes required for that particular feature.
So let's say I had feature number one there at the bottom.
I'd finished it up.
Here's some of the potential places that we could have the automated CI CD process run.
First of all, starting at the bottom there, each time I commit to my development feature branch,
I could kick off a automated build to make sure that all the tests run and that everything is working
particularly well.
That's number one.
Then I might kick that back to a larger feature in step number two, and as I merge it back to that
development branch, I want to do an automated build test, hitting potentially all the different target
platforms.
That means the automated test could be run inside the unity editor in iOS, in Android, on device,
not on device.
You've got lots of different options there.
Then lastly, when that develop, branch is ready and has all of the latest features put to it, and
we want to test out how that would work on the master branch.
We have number three there where before I go to commit it into the the top line there the main or the
master branch, what I could do is merge from the main branch back to develop, then make sure that
everything works well on the development branch and then only if that works well, then I commit to
the main or master branch.
So you can see that you don't have to have these certain steps in any particular order, but you can
have testing help as much or as little as you like along this workflow.
Another high level recap just to see this information a few different ways.
This is specifically to Unity Cloud build instructions here, but I think the steps given are high level
enough.
It's true of most competitors as well.
The first thing you want to do is set up your build automation.
So you point the build automation to the version control where your code is sitting.
In my case, that would be connecting Unity Cloud build and connecting it into GitHub where I have a
repo for the project.
Then you decide on what trigger to have.
This is perhaps committing a change to your project on a specific branch, or merging from one branch
into another branch, or you can set up different rules you want.
The idea here is to not be running it manually, but instead have some part of your development process
automatically trigger.
So that would be number two here.
Then number three on some trigger when you release the code, when you commit the code, when you merge
the code, whatever you decide, the build gets automatically created.
And in step three is where the test would be run as well.
And then finally the team gets notified when the project has been deployed.
So in that example flow, we just saw at each of those moments, whoever wants to could subscribe to
an email that says this feature branch was merged to this one.
That's not really my area of expertise, so I'm not going to listen to any notifications there.
But all developers perhaps would want to be notified through the system for anything merged to that
final main or master branch, and having that CI CD system in there at those key steps is going to confirm
that your unit tests all pass, that none of them fail, and all that works with success that your project
builds.
You can imagine there's scenarios even where the tests would all pass, that maybe the build doesn't
work.
Maybe there's some code that is broken or some asset that is broken that does not have test coverage
yet.
And just the fact that the project gives an error during the build process is a very solid piece of
debugging info to have.
You'll also know the time, date, and branch that caused the issue, so that helps you focus out where
where to look to fix the problem.
And then finally the project would deploy with success.
So we've seen that the CI CD is important for us to be able to know that the project built, but it's
especially powerful combining with unit testing.
So not only did it build, but it built with all passing tests and a recap on unit testing, since that's
the topic of the whole course.
As your project grows with more scripts, classes and methods, it becomes difficult to ensure that
a change in one part of your code doesn't break things somewhere else.
Automated testing helps you check your code is functioning as expected.
Testing saves you time by finding out when and where problems occur as soon as they are introduced,
rather than waiting for manual testing users testing it becomes much more expensive the later you find
these bugs.
So having the system is quite good.
And we remember something quite counterintuitive is the 8020 rule.
It is that 80% of the time we're working on fixing bugs and maintaining our existing code base, and
20% of time is where we're adding new features and new functionality.
We often think that most of our day is spent adding new features, so that's where we want to place
our mental energy.
However, we see from research that having good test unit test practices, having good automated testing,
having a CI CD system, it tremendously impacts and improves the efficiency of your 80%.
So it's really looking at where you can make the most impact with changes to your workflow.
So before we look at an example of doing the ci CD itself, let's recap the simplest type of class here.
Imagine we have a my math system that does some addition and does some subtraction.
Then here we have a unit test, which is a separate file and a separate class using the test attribute
here.
This will grab an instance of that last class we saw, create it test one particular unit or method
of it, being wary of unintended inputs and unintended outputs to that system, and verifying that the
asserted result is the one that we get.
Now, in the case of Unity Cloud Build, when you've got tests like that set up in your project and
you've got the project itself configured in the CI CD system, you can expect to be able to manually
or automatically run those builds by visiting Unity Cloud Build in this case, which is a web based
tool.
See that the build built for the target platform?
In this case, we're testing windows desktop 64 bit.
We see that all the edit mode tests pass and all the play mode tests pass.
All that happens for you automatically based on the trigger that you've decided.
So this is fantastically useful.
Then those on the team that are interested can get an email.
There's a little snippet of an email there that just shows, hey, somebody on the team did a build.
The build was triggered because this branch was merged to that branch or whatever it was.
And here are the results.
They can allow you to click through to a web page or summarize it in the email.
Now this CI CD topic, as well as the basics of unit testing, the fundamentals of them, advanced topics
as well, like talking about pure functions and handling individual workshops for some advanced topics
like scenes, prefabs and adjustables.
It's all part of this course here you can check out the link below.
If you are not yet in the course and check out the trailers.
Enroll in the course and get started on your learning today.
And if you're already a student of the course and you're finding this video inside the course itself,
thank you for being a student and I look forward to seeing you in future classes as well.
So overall here, what we've been able to see is that is that unit testing itself is a tremendously
powerful tool that helps you to have more efficiencies in the areas of development where you're spending
lots of time.
Remember that 80% we saw of overall development effort is maintenance and debugging of existing systems.
So since we recognize how big of an area of our life that is, it's awesome that we have tools like
unity Unit testing and CI CD with tools like Unity Cloud Build or other community tools to be able to
give us all these benefits and automate the delivery of these testing results, the build results and
the delivery of the builds themselves.